googl llc is an american multin technolog compani that special in internet-rel servic and product , which includ onlin advertis technolog , search engin , cloud comput , softwar , and hardwar . It is consid one of the big four technolog compani , alongsid amazon , appl , and facebook . googl wa found in septemb 1998 by larri page and sergey brin while they were ph.d. student at stanford univers in california . togeth they own about 14 percent of it share and control 56 percent of the stockhold vote power through supervot stock . they incorpor googl as a california privat held compani on septemb 4 , 1998 , in california . googl wa then reincorpor in delawar on octob 22 , 2002 . An initi public offer ( ipo ) took place on august 19 , 2004 , and googl move to it headquart in mountain view , california , nicknam the googleplex . In august 2015 , googl announc plan to reorgan it variou interest as a conglomer call alphabet inc. googl is alphabet 's lead subsidiari and will continu to be the umbrella compani for alphabet 's internet interest . sundar pichai wa appoint ceo of googl , replac larri page who becam the ceo of alphabet . the compani 's rapid growth sinc incorpor ha trigger a chain of product , acquisit , and partnership beyond googl 's core search engin ( googl search ) . It offer servic design for work and product ( googl doc , googl sheet , and googl slide ) , email ( gmail ) , schedul and time manag ( googl calendar ) , cloud storag ( googl drive ) , instant messag and video chat ( duo , hangout ) , languag translat ( googl translat ) , map and navig ( googl map , waze , googl earth , street view ) , video share ( youtub ) , note-tak ( googl keep ) , and photo organ and edit ( googl photo ) . the compani lead the develop of the android mobil oper system , the googl chrome web browser , and chrome OS , a lightweight oper system base on the chrome browser . googl ha move increasingli into hardwar ; from 2010 to 2015 , it partner with major electron manufactur in the product of it nexu devic , and it releas multipl hardwar product in octob 2016 , includ the googl pixel smartphon , googl home smart speaker , googl wifi mesh wireless router , and googl daydream virtual realiti headset . googl ha also experi with becom an internet carrier ( googl fiber , googl Fi , and googl station ) . google.com is the most visit websit in the world . sever other googl servic also figur in the top 100 most visit websit , includ youtub and blogger . googl wa the most valuabl brand in the world as of 2017 , but ha receiv signific critic involv issu such as privaci concern , tax avoid , antitrust , censorship , and search neutral . googl 's mission statement is `` to organ the world 's inform and make it univers access and use '' . the compani 's unoffici slogan `` Do n't be evil '' wa remov from the compani 's code of conduct around may 2018 , but reinstat by juli 31 , 2018 . googl began in januari 1996 as a research project by larri page and sergey brin when they were both phd student at stanford univers in stanford , california . the project initi involv an unoffici `` third founder '' , scott hassan , the origin lead programm who wrote much of the code for the origin googl search engin , but he left befor googl wa offici found as a compani ; hassan went on to pursu a career in robot and found the compani willow garag in 2006 . while convent search engin rank result by count how mani time the search term appear on the page , they theoriz about a better system that analyz the relationship among websit . they call thi algorithm pagerank ; it determin a websit 's relev by the number of page , and the import of those page that link back to the origin site . page told hi idea to hassan , who began write the code to implement page 's idea . page and brin origin nicknam the new search engin `` backrub '' , becaus the system check backlink to estim the import of a site . hassan as well as alan steremberg were cite by page and brin as be critic to the develop of googl . rajeev motwani and terri winograd later co-author with page and brin the first paper about the project , describ pagerank and the initi prototyp of the googl search engin , publish in 1998 . héctor garcía-molina and jeff ullman were also cite as contributor to the project . pagerank wa influenc by a similar page-rank and site-scor algorithm earlier use for rankdex , develop by robin Li in 1996 , with larri page 's pagerank patent includ a citat to Li 's earlier rankdex patent ; Li later went on to creat the chines search engin baidu . eventu , they chang the name to googl ; the name of the search engin origin from a misspel of the word `` googol '' , the number 1 follow by 100 zero , which wa pick to signifi that the search engin wa intend to provid larg quantiti of inform . the domain name for googl wa regist on septemb 15 , 1997 , and the compani wa incorpor on septemb 4 , 1998 . It wa base in the garag of a friend ( susan wojcicki ) in menlo park , california . craig silverstein , a fellow phd student at stanford , wa hire as the first employe . googl wa initi fund by an august 1998 contribut of $ 100,000 from andi bechtolsheim , co-found of sun microsystem ; the money wa given befor googl wa incorpor . googl receiv money from three other angel investor in 1998 : amazon.com founder jeff bezo , stanford univers comput scienc professor david cheriton , and entrepreneur ram shriram . between these initi investor , friend , and famili googl rais around 1 million dollar , which is what allow them to open up their origin shop in menlo park , california after some addit , small invest through the end of 1998 to earli 1999 , a new $ 25 million round of fund wa announc on june 7 , 1999 , with major investor includ the ventur capit firm kleiner perkin and sequoia capit . In march 1999 , the compani move it offic to palo alto , california , which is home to sever promin silicon valley technolog start-up . the next year , googl began sell advertis associ with search keyword against page and brin 's initi opposit toward an advertising-fund search engin . To maintain an unclutt page design , advertis were sole text-bas . In june 2000 , it wa announc that googl would becom the default search engin provid for yahoo ! , one of the most popular websit at the time , replac inktomi . In 2003 , after outgrow two other locat , the compani leas an offic complex from silicon graphic , at 1600 amphitheatr parkway in mountain view , california . the complex becam known as the googleplex , a play on the word googolplex , the number one follow by a googol zero . three year later , googl bought the properti from sgi for $ 319 million . By that time , the name `` googl '' had found it way into everyday languag , caus the verb `` googl '' to be ad to the merriam-webst collegi dictionari and the oxford english dictionari , denot as : `` to use the googl search engin to obtain inform on the internet '' . addit , in 2001 googl 's investor felt the need to have a strong intern manag , and they agre to hire eric schmidt as the chairman and ceo of googl googl 's initi public offer ( ipo ) took place five year later , on august 19 , 2004 . At that time larri page , sergey brin , and eric schmidt agre to work togeth at googl for 20 year , until the year 2024 . At ipo , the compani offer 19,605,052 share at a price of $ 85 per share . share were sold in an onlin auction format use a system built by morgan stanley and credit suiss , underwrit for the deal . the sale of $ 1.67 billion gave googl a market capit of more than $ 23 billion . In octob 2006 , googl announc that it had acquir the video-shar site youtub for $ 1.65 billion in googl stock , and the deal wa final on novemb 13 , 2006 . On april 13 , 2007 , googl reach an agreement to acquir doubleclick for $ 3.1 billion , transfer to googl valuabl relationship that doubleclick had with web publish and advertis agenc . In 2005 , the washington post report on a 700 percent increas in third-quart profit for googl , larg thank to larg compani shift their advertis strategi from newspap , magazin , and televis to the internet . In may 2011 , the number of monthli uniqu visitor to googl surpass one billion for the first time . By 2011 , googl wa handl approxim 3 billion search per day . To handl thi workload , googl built 11 data center around the world with some sever thousand server in each . these data center allow googl to handl the ever chang workload more effici . On august 15 , 2011 , googl made it largest-ev acquisit to date when it announc that it would acquir motorola mobil for $ 12.5 billion thi purchas wa made in part to help googl gain motorola 's consider patent portfolio on mobil phone and wireless technolog , to help protect googl in it ongo patent disput with other compani , mainli appl and microsoft , and to allow it to continu to freeli offer android . the year 2012 wa the first time that googl gener $ 50 billion in annual revenu , gener $ 38 billion the previou year . In januari 2013 , then-ceo larri page comment , `` We end 2012 with a strong quarter ... revenu were up 36 % year-on-year , and 8 % quarter-on-quart . and we hit $ 50 billion in revenu for the first time last year – not a bad achiev in just a decad and a half . '' In june 2013 , googl acquir waze , a $ 966 million deal . while waze would remain an independ entiti , it social featur , such as it crowdsourc locat platform , were reportedli valuabl integr between waze and googl map , googl 's own map servic . googl announc the launch of a new compani , call calico , on septemb 19 , 2013 , to be led by appl , inc. chairman arthur levinson . In the offici public statement , page explain that the `` health and well-b '' compani would focu on `` the challeng of age and associ diseas '' . On januari 26 , 2014 , googl announc it had agre to acquir deepmind technolog , a privat held artifici intellig compani from london . technolog news websit recod report that the compani wa purchas for $ 400 million though it wa not disclos where the inform came from . A googl spokesman would not comment of the price . the purchas of deepmind aid in googl 's recent growth in the artifici intellig and robot commun . accord to interbrand 's annual best global brand report , googl ha been the second most valuabl brand in the world ( behind appl inc. ) in 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , with a valuat of $ 133 billion . On august 10 , 2015 , googl announc plan to reorgan it variou interest as a conglomer call alphabet . googl becam alphabet 's lead subsidiari , and will continu to be the umbrella compani for alphabet 's internet interest . upon complet of the restructur , sundar pichai becam ceo of googl , replac larri page , who becam ceo of alphabet . As of octob 2016 , googl oper 70 offic in more than 40 countri . alexa , a compani that monitor commerci web traffic , list google.com as the most visit websit in the world . sever other googl servic also figur in the top 100 most visit websit , includ youtub and blogger . On august 8 , 2017 , googl fire employe jame damor after he distribut a memo throughout the compani which argu that `` googl 's ideolog echo chamber '' and bia cloud their think about divers and inclus , and that it is also biolog factor , not discrimin alon , that caus the averag woman to be less interest than men in technic posit . googl ceo sundar pichai accus damor in violat compani polici by `` advanc harm gender stereotyp in our workplac '' , and he wa fire on the same day . new york time columnist david brook argu pichai had mishandl the case , and call for hi resign . On octob 25 , 2018 , the new york time publish the exposé , `` how googl protect andi rubin , the ‘ father of android ’ '' . the compani subsequ announc that `` 48 employe have been fire over the last two year '' for sexual misconduct . On novemb 1 , 2018 , more than 20,000 googl employe and contractor stage a global walk-out to protest the compani 's handl of sexual harass complaint . On march 19 , 2019 , googl announc that it would enter the video game market , launch a cloud game platform call googl stadia . On june 3 , 2019 , the unit state depart of justic report that it would investig googl for antitrust violat . googl index billion of web page to allow user to search for the inform they desir through the use of keyword and oper . accord to comscor market research from novemb 2009 , googl search is the domin search engin in the unit state market , with a market share of 65.6 % . In may 2017 , googl enabl a new `` person '' tab in googl search , let user search for content in their googl account ' variou servic , includ email messag from gmail and photo from googl photo . googl launch it googl new servic in 2002 , an autom servic which summar news articl from variou websit . googl also host googl book , a servic which search the text found in book in it databas and show limit preview or and the full book where allow . As per it 2017 annual report , googl gener most of it revenu from advertis . thi includ sale of app , purchas made in-app , digit content product on googl and youtub , android and licens and servic fee , includ fee receiv for googl cloud offer . 46 % of thi wa from click ( cost per click ) , amount to US $ 109,652 million in 2017 . thi includ three princip method , name admob , adsens ( such as adsens for content , adsens for search , etc . ) and doubleclick adexchang . for the 2006 fiscal year , the compani report $ 10.492 billion in total advertis revenu and onli $ 112 million in licens and other revenu . In 2011 , 96 % of googl 's revenu wa deriv from it advertis program . In addit to it own algorithm for understand search request , googl use technolog from the compani doubleclick , to project user interest and target advertis to the search context and the user histori . In 2007 , googl launch `` adsens for mobil '' , take advantag of the emerg mobil advertis market . googl analyt allow websit owner to track where and how peopl use their websit , for exampl by examin click rate for all the link on a page . googl advertis can be place on third-parti websit in a two-part program . googl ad allow advertis to display their advertis in the googl content network , through a cost-per-click scheme . the sister servic , googl adsens , allow websit owner to display these advertis on their websit and earn money everi time ad are click . one of the critic of thi program is the possibl of click fraud , which occur when a person or autom script click on advertis without be interest in the product , caus the advertis to pay money to googl unduli . industri report in 2006 claim that approxim 14 to 20 percent of click were fraudul or invalid . googl search consol ( rebrand from googl webmast tool in may 2015 ) allow webmast to check the sitemap , crawl rate , and for secur issu of their websit , as well as optim their websit 's visibl . googl offer gmail for email , googl calendar for time-manag and schedul , googl map for map , navig and satellit imageri , googl drive for cloud storag of file , googl doc , sheet and slide for product , googl photo for photo storag and share , googl keep for note-tak , googl translat for languag translat , youtub for video view and share , googl My busi for manag public busi inform , and duo for social interact . In march 2019 , googl unveil a cloud game servic name stadia . googl develop the android mobil oper system , as well as it smartwatch , televis , car , and internet of things-en smart devic variat . It also develop the googl chrome web browser , and chrome OS , an oper system base on chrome . In januari 2010 , googl releas nexu one , the first android phone under it own brand , `` nexu '' . It spawn a number of phone and tablet under the `` nexu '' brand until it eventu discontinu in 2016 , replac by a new brand call pixel . In 2011 , the chromebook wa introduc , describ as a `` new kind of comput '' run chrome OS . In juli 2013 , googl introduc the chromecast dongl , that allow user to stream content from their smartphon to televis . In june 2014 , googl announc googl cardboard , a simpl cardboard viewer that let user place their smartphon in a special front compart to view virtual realiti ( VR ) media . G suit is a monthli subscript offer for organ and busi to get access to a collect of googl 's servic , includ gmail , googl drive and googl doc , googl sheet and googl slide , with addit administr tool , uniqu domain name , and 24/7 support . On septemb 24 , 2012 , googl launch googl for entrepreneur , a larg not-for-profit busi incub provid startup with co-work space known as campus , with assist to startup founder that may includ workshop , confer , and mentorship . present , there are 7 campu locat in berlin , london , madrid , seoul , são paulo , tel aviv , and warsaw . On march 15 , 2016 , googl announc the introduct of googl analyt 360 suit , `` a set of integr data and market analyt product , design specif for the need of enterprise-class market '' which can be integr with bigqueri on the googl cloud platform . among other thing , the suit is design to help `` enterpris class market '' `` see the complet custom journey '' , gener `` use insight '' , and `` deliv engag experi to the right peopl '' . jack marshal of the wall street journal wrote that the suit compet with exist market cloud offer by compani includ adob , oracl , salesforc , and ibm . In februari 2010 , googl announc the googl fiber project , with experiment plan to build an ultra-high-spe broadband network for 50,000 to 500,000 custom in one or more american citi . follow googl 's corpor restructur to make alphabet inc. it parent compani , googl fiber wa move to alphabet 's access divis . In april 2015 , googl announc project Fi , a mobil virtual network oper , that combin wi-fi and cellular network from differ telecommun provid in an effort to enabl seamless connect and fast internet signal . In septemb 2016 , googl began it googl station initi , a project for public wi-fi at railway station in india . caesar sengupta , VP for googl 's next billion user , told the verg that 15,000 peopl get onlin for the first time thank to googl station and that 3.5 million peopl use the servic everi month . the expans meant that googl wa look for partner around the world to further develop the initi , which promis `` high-qual , secur , easili access wi-fi '' . By decemb , googl station had been deploy at 100 railway station , and in februari , googl announc it intent to expand beyond railway station , with a plan to bring citywid wi-fi to pune . In may 2011 , googl announc googl wallet , a mobil applic for wireless payment . In 2013 , googl launch googl shop express , a deliveri servic initi avail onli in san francisco and silicon valley . googl 's initi public offer ( ipo ) took place on august 19 , 2004 . At ipo , the compani offer 19,605,052 share at a price of $ 85 per share . the sale of $ 1.67 billion gave googl a market capit of more than $ 23 billion . the stock perform well after the ipo , with share hit $ 350 for the first time on octob 31 , 2007 , primarili becaus of strong sale and earn in the onlin advertis market . the surg in stock price wa fuel mainli by individu investor , as oppos to larg institut investor and mutual fund . goog share split into goog class C share and googl class A share . the compani is list on the nasdaq stock exchang under the ticker symbol googl and goog , and on the frankfurt stock exchang under the ticker symbol ggq1 . these ticker symbol now refer to alphabet inc. , googl 's hold compani , sinc the fourth quarter of 2015 . the corpor 's consolid revenu for the third quarter of 2013 wa report in mid-octob 2013 as $ 14.89 billion , a 12 percent increas compar to the previou quarter . googl 's internet busi wa respons for $ 10.8 billion of thi total , with an increas in the number of user ' click on advertis . By januari 2014 , googl 's market capit had grown to $ 397 billion . googl use variou tax avoid strategi . out of the five largest american technolog compani , it pay the lowest tax to the countri of origin of it revenu . googl between 2007 and 2010 save $ 3.1 billion in tax by shuttl non-u.s. profit through ireland and the netherland and then to bermuda . such techniqu lower it non-u.s. tax rate to 2.3 per cent , while normal the corpor tax rate in for instanc the UK is 28 per cent . thi ha reportedli spark a french investig into googl 's transfer price practic . googl vice-presid matt brittin testifi to the public account committe of the UK hous of common that hi UK sale team made no sale and henc owe no sale tax to the UK . In januari 2016 , googl reach a settlement with the UK to pay £130m in back tax plu higher tax in futur . In 2017 , googl channel $ 22.7 billion from the netherland to bermuda to reduc it tax bill . In 2013 , googl rank 5th in lobbi spend , up from 213th in 2003 . In 2012 , the compani rank 2nd in campaign donat of technolog and internet section . the name `` googl '' origin from a misspel of `` googol '' , which refer to the number repres by a 1 follow by one-hundr zero . page and brin write in their origin paper on pagerank : `` We chose our system name , googl , becaus it is a common spell of googol , or 10100 and fit well with our goal of build veri large-scal search engin . '' have found it way increasingli into everyday languag , the verb `` googl '' wa ad to the merriam webster collegi dictionari and the oxford english dictionari in 2006 , mean `` to use the googl search engin to obtain inform on the internet . '' googl 's mission statement , from the outset , wa `` to organ the world 's inform and make it univers access and use '' , and it unoffici slogan is `` Do n't be evil '' . In octob 2015 , a relat motto wa adopt in the alphabet corpor code of conduct by the phrase : `` Do the right thing '' . the origin motto wa retain in the code of conduct of googl , now a subsidiari of alphabet . the origin googl logo wa design by sergey brin . sinc 1998 , googl ha been design special , temporari altern logo to place on their homepag intend to celebr holiday , event , achiev and peopl . the first googl doodl wa in honor of the burn man festiv of 1998 . the doodl wa design by larri page and sergey brin to notifi user of their absenc in case the server crash . subsequ googl doodl were design by an outsid contractor , until larri and sergey ask then-intern denni hwang to design a logo for bastil day in 2000 . from that point onward , doodl have been organ and creat by a team of employe term `` doodler '' . googl ha a tradit of creat april fool ' day joke . it first on april 1 , 2000 wa googl mentalplex which allegedli featur the use of mental power to search the web . In 2007 , googl announc a free internet servic call tisp , or toilet internet servic provid , where one obtain a connect by flush one end of a fiber-opt cabl down their toilet . googl 's servic contain easter egg , such as the swedish chef 's `` bork bork bork , '' pig latin , `` hacker '' or leetspeak , elmer fudd , pirat , and klingon as languag select for it search engin . when search for the word `` anagram , '' mean a rearrang of letter from one word to form other valid word , googl 's suggest featur display `` did you mean : nag a ram ? '' On fortun magazin 's list of the best compani to work for , googl rank first in 2007 , 2008 and 2012 , and fourth in 2009 and 2010 . googl wa also nomin in 2010 to be the world 's most attract employ to graduat student in the universum commun talent attract index . googl 's corpor philosophi includ principl such as `` you can make money without do evil , '' `` you can be seriou without a suit , '' and `` work should be challeng and the challeng should be fun . '' As of decemb 2018 , googl ha 98,771 employe . googl 's 2017 divers report state that 31 percent of it workforc are women and 69 percent are men , with the ethnic of it workforc be predominantli white ( 56 % ) and asian ( 35 % ) . within tech role , howev , 20 percent were women ; and 25 percent of leadership role were held by women . googl 's employe are hire base on a hierarch system . employe are split into six hierarchi base on experi and can rang `` from entry-level data center worker at level one to manag and experienc engin at level six . '' As a motiv techniqu , googl use a polici known as innov time off , where googl engin are encourag to spend 20 % of their work time on project that interest them . some of googl 's servic , such as gmail , googl new , orkut , and adsens origin from these independ endeavor . In a talk at stanford univers , marissa mayer , googl 's vice-presid of search product and user experi until juli 2012 , show that half of all new product launch in the second half of 2005 had origin from the innov time off . In 2005 , articl in the new york time and other sourc began suggest that googl had lost it anti-corpor , no evil philosophi . In an effort to maintain the compani 's uniqu cultur , googl design a chief cultur offic whose purpos wa to develop and maintain the cultur and work on way to keep true to the core valu that the compani wa found on . googl ha also face alleg of sexism and ageism from former employe . In 2013 , a class action against sever silicon valley compani , includ googl , wa file for alleg `` no cold call '' agreement which restrain the recruit of high-tech employe . googl 's headquart in mountain view , california is refer to as `` the googleplex '' , a play on word on the number googolplex and the headquart itself be a complex of build . intern , googl ha over 78 offic in more than 50 countri . In 2006 , googl move into about 300,000 squar feet ( 27,900 m2 ) of offic space in new york citi , at 111 eighth avenu in manhattan . the offic wa design and built special for googl , and hous it largest advertis sale team , which ha been instrument in secur larg partnership . In 2010 , googl bought the build hous the headquart , in a deal that valu the properti at around $ 1.9 billion . In march 2018 , googl 's parent compani alphabet bought the nearbi chelsea market build for $ 2.4 billion . the sale is tout as one of the most expens real estat transact for a singl build in the histori of new york . In novemb 2018 , googl announc it plan to expand it new york citi offic to a capac of 12,000 employe . the same decemb , it wa announc that a $ 1 billion , 1,700,000-square-foot ( 160,000 m2 ) headquart for googl would be built in manhattan 's hudson squar neighborhood . call googl hudson squar , the new campu is project to more than doubl the number of googl employe work in new york citi . By late 2006 , googl establish a new headquart for it adword divis in ann arbor , michigan . In novemb 2006 , googl open offic on carnegi mellon 's campu in pittsburgh , focus on shopping-rel advertis code and smartphon applic and program . other offic locat in the u.s. includ atlanta , georgia ; austin , texa ; boulder , colorado ; cambridg , massachusett ; san francisco , california ; seattl , washington ; kirkland , washington ; birmingham , michigan ; reston , virginia , and washington , d.c . It also ha product research and develop oper in citi around the world , name sydney ( birthplac locat of googl map ) and london ( part of android develop ) . In novemb 2013 , googl announc plan for a new london headquart , a 1 million squar foot offic abl to accommod 4,500 employe . recogn as one of the biggest ever commerci properti acquisit at the time of the deal 's announc in januari , googl submit plan for the new headquart to the camden council in june 2017 . In may 2015 , googl announc it intent to creat it own campu in hyderabad , india . the new campu , report to be the compani 's largest outsid the unit state , will accommod 13,000 employe . googl data center are locat in north and south america , asia , and europ . there is no offici data on the number of server in googl data center ; howev , research and advisori firm gartner estim in a juli 2016 report that googl at the time had 2.5 million server . tradit , googl reli on parallel comput on commod hardwar like mainstream x86 comput ( similar to home pc ) to keep cost per queri low . In 2005 , it start develop it own design , which were onli reveal in 2009 . In the late 2010 , googl began to build it own privat submarin commun cabl . the first , name curi , connect california with chile and is to be complet in 2019 . the second fulli google-own undersea cabl , name dunant , connect the unit state with franc and is plan to begin oper in 2020 . In octob 2006 , the compani announc plan to instal thousand of solar panel to provid up to 1.6 megawatt of electr , enough to satisfi approxim 30 % of the campu ' energi need . the system will be the largest solar power system construct on a u.s. corpor campu and one of the largest on ani corpor site in the world . sinc 2007 , googl ha aim for carbon neutral in regard to it oper . googl disclos in septemb 2011 that it `` continu use enough electr to power 200,000 home '' , almost 260 million watt or about a quarter of the output of a nuclear power plant . total carbon emiss for 2010 were just under 1.5 million metric ton , mostli due to fossil fuel that provid electr for the data center . googl said that 25 percent of it energi wa suppli by renew fuel in 2010 . An averag search use onli 0.3 watt-hour of electr , so all global search are onli 12.5 million watt or 5 % of the total electr consumpt by googl . In 2010 , googl energi made it first invest in a renew energi project , put $ 38.8 million into two wind farm in north dakota . the compani announc the two locat will gener 169.5 megawatt of power , enough to suppli 55,000 home . In februari 2010 , the feder energi regulatori commiss ferc grant googl an author to buy and sell energi at market rate . the corpor exercis thi author in septemb 2013 when it announc it would purchas all the electr produc by the not-yet-built 240-megawatt happi hereford wind farm . In juli 2010 , googl sign an agreement with an iowa wind farm to buy 114 megawatt of energi for 20 year . In decemb 2016 , googl announc that—start in 2017—it will power all of it data center , as well as all of it offic , from 100 % renew energi . the commit will make googl `` the world 's largest corpor buyer of renew power , with commit reach 2.6 gigawatt ( 2,600 megawatt ) of wind and solar energi '' . googl also state that it doe not count that as it final goal ; it say that `` sinc the wind doe n't blow 24 hour a day , we 'll also broaden our purchas to a varieti of energi sourc that can enabl renew power , everi hour of everi day '' . addit , the project will `` help support commun '' around the world , as the purchas commit will `` result in infrastructur invest of more than $ 3.5 billion global '' , and will `` gener ten of million of dollar per year in revenu to local properti owner , and ten of million more to local and nation govern in tax revenu '' . In novemb 2017 , googl bought 536 megawatt of wind power . the purchas made the firm reach 100 % renew energi . the wind energi come from two power plant in south dakota , one in iowa and one in oklahoma . In septemb 2019 , googl 's chief execut announc plan for a $ 2 billion wind and solar invest , the biggest renew energi deal in corpor histori . thi will grow their green energi profil by 40 % , give them an extra 1.6 gigawatt of clean energi , the compani said . In 2004 , googl form the not-for-profit philanthrop google.org , with a start-up fund of $ 1 billion . the mission of the organ is to creat awar about climat chang , global public health , and global poverti . one of it first project wa to develop a viabl plug-in hybrid electr vehicl that can attain 100 mile per gallon . googl hire larri brilliant as the program 's execut director in 2004 and megan smith ha sinc replac him as director . In 2008 , googl announc it `` project 10100 '' which accept idea for how to help the commun and then allow googl user to vote on their favorit . after two year of silenc , dure which mani wonder what had happen to the program , googl reveal the winner of the project , give a total of ten million dollar to variou idea rang from non-profit organ that promot educ to a websit that intend to make all legal document public and onlin . In march 2007 , in partnership with the mathemat scienc research institut ( msri ) , googl host the first julia robinson mathemat festiv at it headquart in mountain view . In 2011 , googl donat 1 million euro to intern mathemat olympiad to support the next five annual intern mathemat olympiad ( 2011–2015 ) . In juli 2012 , googl launch a `` legal love '' campaign in support of gay right . googl 's market domin ha led to promin media coverag , includ critic of the compani over issu such as aggress tax avoid , search neutral , copyright , censorship of search result and content , and privaci . other critic includ alleg misus and manipul of search result , it use of other ' intellectu properti , concern that it compil of data may violat peopl 's privaci , and the energi consumpt of it server , as well as concern over tradit busi issu such as monopoli , restraint of trade , anti-competit practic , and patent infring . googl formerli adher to the internet censorship polici of china , enforc by mean of filter colloqui known as `` the great firewal of china '' , but no longer doe so . As a result , all googl servic except for chines googl map are block from access within mainland china without the aid of vpn , proxi server , or other similar technolog . the intercept report in august 2018 that googl is develop for the peopl 's republ of china a censor version of it search engin ( known as dragonfli ) `` that will blacklist websit and search term about human right , democraci , religion , and peac protest '' . howev , the project had been withheld due to privaci concern . follow media report about prism , nsa 's massiv electron surveil program , in june 2013 , sever technolog compani were identifi as particip , includ googl . accord to leak of said program , googl join the prism program in 2009 . googl ha work with the unit state depart of defens on drone softwar through the 2017 `` project maven '' that could be use to improv the accuraci of drone strike . thousand of googl employe , includ senior engin , have sign a letter urg googl ceo sundar pichai to end a controversi contract with the pentagon . In respons to the backlash , googl ultim decid to not renew their dod contract , set to expir in 2019 . shona ghosh , a journalist for busi insid , note that an increas digit resist movement against googl ha grown . A major hub for critic of googl in order to organ to abstain from use googl product is the reddit page for the subreddit /r/degoogl . In april 2019 former mozilla execut ha accus googl of intent and systemat sabotag firefox browser over the past decad in order to boost chrome 's adopt . thi wa not the first time such controversi were report . In juli 2018 , mozilla program manag chri peterson accus googl of intent slow down youtub perform on firefox . googl ha been involv in a number of lawsuit includ the high-tech employe antitrust litig which result in googl be one of four compani to pay a $ 415 million settlement to employe . On june 27 , 2017 , the compani receiv a record fine of €2.42 billion from the european union for `` promot it own shop comparison servic at the top of search result . '' comment on the penalti , new scientist magazin said : `` the hefti sum – the largest ever dole out by the EU 's competit regul – will sting in the short term , but googl can handl it . alphabet , googl ’ s parent compani , made a profit of $ 2.5 billion ( €2.2 billion ) in the first six week of 2017 alon . the real impact of the rule is that googl must stop use it domin as a search engin to give itself the edg in anoth market : onlin price comparison . '' the compani disput the rule . On juli 18 , 2018 , the european commiss fine googl €4.34 billion for breach EU antitrust rule . the abus of domin posit ha been refer to googl 's constraint appli on android devic manufactur and network oper to ensur that traffic on android devic goe to the googl search engin . On octob 9 , 2018 , googl confirm that it had appeal the fine to the gener court of the european union . On januari 21 , 2019 , french data regul cnil impos a record €50 million fine on googl for breach the european union 's gener data protect regul . the judgment claim googl had fail to suffici inform user of it method for collect data to person advertis . googl issu a statement say it wa “ deepli commit ” to transpar and wa “ studi the decis ” befor determin it respons . On march 20 , 2019 , the european commiss impos a €1.49 billion ( $ 1.69 billion ) fine on googl for prevent rival from be abl to “ compet and innov fairli ” in the onlin advertis market . european union competit commission margreth vestag said googl had violat EU antitrust rule by “ impos anti-competit contractu restrict on third-parti websit ” that requir them to exclud search result from googl 's rival . kent walker , googl 's senior vice-presid of global affair , said the compani had “ alreadi made a wide rang of chang to our product to address the commiss ’ s concern , ” and that `` we 'll be make further updat to give more visibl to rival in europ . '' 