Google LLC be an American multinational technology company that specializes in Internet-related service and product , which include online advertising technology , search engine , cloud compute , software , and hardware . It be consider one of the Big Four technology company , alongside Amazon , Apple , and Facebook . Google be found in September 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin while they be Ph.D. student at Stanford University in California . Together they own about 14 percent of it share and control 56 percent of the stockholder voting power through supervoting stock . They incorporate Google a a California privately held company on September 4 , 1998 , in California . Google be then reincorporated in Delaware on October 22 , 2002 . An initial public offering ( IPO ) take place on August 19 , 2004 , and Google move to it headquarters in Mountain View , California , nickname the Googleplex . In August 2015 , Google announce plan to reorganize it various interest a a conglomerate call Alphabet Inc. Google be Alphabet 's lead subsidiary and will continue to be the umbrella company for Alphabet 's Internet interest . Sundar Pichai be appoint CEO of Google , replace Larry Page who become the CEO of Alphabet . The company 's rapid growth since incorporation have trigger a chain of product , acquisition , and partnership beyond Google 's core search engine ( Google Search ) . It offer service design for work and productivity ( Google Docs , Google Sheets , and Google Slides ) , email ( Gmail ) , schedule and time management ( Google Calendar ) , cloud storage ( Google Drive ) , instant message and video chat ( Duo , Hangouts ) , language translation ( Google Translate ) , mapping and navigation ( Google Maps , Waze , Google Earth , Street View ) , video share ( YouTube ) , note-taking ( Google Keep ) , and photo organize and edit ( Google Photos ) . The company lead the development of the Android mobile operating system , the Google Chrome web browser , and Chrome OS , a lightweight operating system base on the Chrome browser . Google have move increasingly into hardware ; from 2010 to 2015 , it partner with major electronics manufacturer in the production of it Nexus device , and it release multiple hardware product in October 2016 , include the Google Pixel smartphone , Google Home smart speaker , Google Wifi mesh wireless router , and Google Daydream virtual reality headset . Google have also experiment with become an Internet carrier ( Google Fiber , Google Fi , and Google Station ) . Google.com be the most visit website in the world . Several other Google service also figure in the top 100 most visit website , include YouTube and Blogger . Google be the most valuable brand in the world a of 2017 , but have receive significant criticism involve issue such a privacy concern , tax avoidance , antitrust , censorship , and search neutrality . Google 's mission statement be `` to organize the world 's information and make it universally accessible and useful '' . The company 's unofficial slogan `` Do n't be evil '' be remove from the company 's code of conduct around May 2018 , but reinstate by July 31 , 2018 . Google begin in January 1996 a a research project by Larry Page and Sergey Brin when they be both PhD student at Stanford University in Stanford , California . The project initially involve an unofficial `` third founder '' , Scott Hassan , the original lead programmer who write much of the code for the original Google Search engine , but he left before Google be officially found a a company ; Hassan go on to pursue a career in robotics and found the company Willow Garage in 2006 . While conventional search engine ranked result by counting how many time the search term appear on the page , they theorize about a well system that analyze the relationship among website . They call this algorithm PageRank ; it determine a website 's relevance by the number of page , and the importance of those page that link back to the original site . Page told his idea to Hassan , who begin write the code to implement Page 's idea . Page and Brin originally nickname the new search engine `` BackRub '' , because the system checked backlinks to estimate the importance of a site . Hassan a well a Alan Steremberg be cite by Page and Brin a be critical to the development of Google . Rajeev Motwani and Terry Winograd later co-authored with Page and Brin the first paper about the project , describe PageRank and the initial prototype of the Google search engine , publish in 1998 . Héctor García-Molina and Jeff Ullman be also cite a contributor to the project . PageRank be influence by a similar page-ranking and site-scoring algorithm earlier use for RankDex , developed by Robin Li in 1996 , with Larry Page 's PageRank patent include a citation to Li 's earlier RankDex patent ; Li later go on to create the Chinese search engine Baidu . Eventually , they change the name to Google ; the name of the search engine originate from a misspell of the word `` googol '' , the number 1 follow by 100 zero , which be picked to signify that the search engine be intend to provide large quantity of information . The domain name for Google be register on September 15 , 1997 , and the company be incorporate on September 4 , 1998 . It be base in the garage of a friend ( Susan Wojcicki ) in Menlo Park , California . Craig Silverstein , a fellow PhD student at Stanford , be hire a the first employee . Google be initially fund by an August 1998 contribution of $ 100,000 from Andy Bechtolsheim , co-founder of Sun Microsystems ; the money be give before Google be incorporate . Google receive money from three other angel investor in 1998 : Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos , Stanford University computer science professor David Cheriton , and entrepreneur Ram Shriram . Between these initial investor , friend , and family Google raise around 1 million dollar , which be what allow them to open up their original shop in Menlo Park , California After some additional , small investment through the end of 1998 to early 1999 , a new $ 25 million round of funding be announce on June 7 , 1999 , with major investor include the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia Capital . In March 1999 , the company move it office to Palo Alto , California , which be home to several prominent Silicon Valley technology start-ups . The next year , Google begin sell advertisement associate with search keywords against Page and Brin 's initial opposition toward an advertising-funded search engine . To maintain an uncluttered page design , advertisement be solely text-based . In June 2000 , it be announce that Google would become the default search engine provider for Yahoo ! , one of the most popular website at the time , replace Inktomi . In 2003 , after outgrow two other location , the company lease an office complex from Silicon Graphics , at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View , California . The complex become know a the Googleplex , a play on the word googolplex , the number one follow by a googol zero . Three year later , Google bought the property from SGI for $ 319 million . By that time , the name `` Google '' have found it way into everyday language , cause the verb `` google '' to be add to the Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary and the Oxford English Dictionary , denote a : `` to use the Google search engine to obtain information on the Internet '' . Additionally , in 2001 Google 's Investors felt the need to have a strong internal management , and they agree to hire Eric Schmidt a the Chairman and CEO of Google Google 's initial public offering ( IPO ) take place five year later , on August 19 , 2004 . At that time Larry Page , Sergey Brin , and Eric Schmidt agree to work together at Google for 20 year , until the year 2024 . At IPO , the company offer 19,605,052 share at a price of $ 85 per share . Shares be sell in an online auction format use a system built by Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse , underwriter for the deal . The sale of $ 1.67 billion give Google a market capitalization of more than $ 23 billion . In October 2006 , Google announce that it have acquire the video-sharing site YouTube for $ 1.65 billion in Google stock , and the deal be finalize on November 13 , 2006 . On April 13 , 2007 , Google reach an agreement to acquire DoubleClick for $ 3.1 billion , transfer to Google valuable relationship that DoubleClick have with Web publisher and advertising agency . In 2005 , The Washington Post report on a 700 percent increase in third-quarter profit for Google , largely thanks to large company shift their advertising strategy from newspaper , magazine , and television to the Internet . In May 2011 , the number of monthly unique visitor to Google surpass one billion for the first time . By 2011 , Google be handle approximately 3 billion search per day . To handle this workload , Google built 11 data center around the world with some several thousand server in each . These data center allow Google to handle the ever change workload more efficiently . On August 15 , 2011 , Google make it largest-ever acquisition to date when it announce that it would acquire Motorola Mobility for $ 12.5 billion This purchase be make in part to help Google gain Motorola 's considerable patent portfolio on mobile phone and wireless technology , to help protect Google in it ongoing patent dispute with other company , mainly Apple and Microsoft , and to allow it to continue to freely offer Android . The year 2012 be the first time that Google generate $ 50 billion in annual revenue , generate $ 38 billion the previous year . In January 2013 , then-CEO Larry Page comment , `` We end 2012 with a strong quarter ... Revenues be up 36 % year-on-year , and 8 % quarter-on-quarter . And we hit $ 50 billion in revenue for the first time last year – not a bad achievement in just a decade and a half . '' In June 2013 , Google acquire Waze , a $ 966 million deal . While Waze would remain an independent entity , it social feature , such a it crowdsourced location platform , be reportedly valuable integration between Waze and Google Maps , Google 's own mapping service . Google announce the launch of a new company , call Calico , on September 19 , 2013 , to be lead by Apple , Inc. chairman Arthur Levinson . In the official public statement , Page explain that the `` health and well-being '' company would focus on `` the challenge of age and associate disease '' . On January 26 , 2014 , Google announce it have agree to acquire DeepMind Technologies , a privately held artificial intelligence company from London . Technology news website Recode report that the company be purchase for $ 400 million though it be not disclose where the information come from . A Google spokesman would not comment of the price . The purchase of DeepMind aid in Google 's recent growth in the artificial intelligence and robotics community . According to Interbrand 's annual Best Global Brands report , Google have be the second most valuable brand in the world ( behind Apple Inc. ) in 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , and 2016 , with a valuation of $ 133 billion . On August 10 , 2015 , Google announce plan to reorganize it various interest a a conglomerate call Alphabet . Google become Alphabet 's lead subsidiary , and will continue to be the umbrella company for Alphabet 's Internet interest . Upon completion of the restructure , Sundar Pichai become CEO of Google , replace Larry Page , who become CEO of Alphabet . As of October 2016 , Google operates 70 office in more than 40 country . Alexa , a company that monitor commercial web traffic , list Google.com a the most visit website in the world . Several other Google service also figure in the top 100 most visit website , include YouTube and Blogger . On August 8 , 2017 , Google fire employee James Damore after he distribute a memo throughout the company which argue that `` Google 's ideological echo chamber '' and bias cloud their think about diversity and inclusion , and that it be also biological factor , not discrimination alone , that cause the average woman to be less interested than men in technical position . Google CEO Sundar Pichai accuse Damore in violate company policy by `` advance harmful gender stereotype in our workplace '' , and he be fire on the same day . New York Times columnist David Brooks argue Pichai have mishandle the case , and call for his resignation . On October 25 , 2018 , The New York Times publish the exposé , `` How Google Protected Andy Rubin , the ‘ Father of Android ’ '' . The company subsequently announce that `` 48 employee have be fire over the last two year '' for sexual misconduct . On November 1 , 2018 , more than 20,000 Google employee and contractor stag a global walk-out to protest the company 's handle of sexual harassment complaint . On March 19 , 2019 , Google announce that it would enter the video game market , launch a cloud game platform call Google Stadia . On June 3 , 2019 , the United States Department of Justice report that it would investigate Google for antitrust violation . Google index billion of web page to allow user to search for the information they desire through the use of keywords and operator . According to comScore market research from November 2009 , Google Search be the dominant search engine in the United States market , with a market share of 65.6 % . In May 2017 , Google enable a new `` Personal '' tab in Google Search , let user search for content in their Google account ' various service , include email message from Gmail and photo from Google Photos . Google launch it Google News service in 2002 , an automate service which summarizes news article from various website . Google also host Google Books , a service which search the text found in book in it database and show limited preview or and the full book where allow . As per it 2017 Annual report , Google generates most of it revenue from advertising . This include sale of apps , purchase make in-app , digital content product on google and YouTube , android and licensing and service fee , include fee receive for Google Cloud offering . 46 % of this be from click ( cost per click ) , amount to US $ 109,652 million in 2017 . This include three principal method , namely AdMob , AdSense ( such a AdSense for Content , AdSense for Search , etc . ) and DoubleClick AdExchange . For the 2006 fiscal year , the company report $ 10.492 billion in total advertising revenue and only $ 112 million in licensing and other revenue . In 2011 , 96 % of Google 's revenue be derive from it advertising program . In addition to it own algorithm for understand search request , Google us technology from the company DoubleClick , to project user interest and target advertising to the search context and the user history . In 2007 , Google launch `` AdSense for Mobile '' , take advantage of the emerge mobile advertising market . Google Analytics allows website owner to track where and how people use their website , for example by examine click rate for all the link on a page . Google advertisement can be place on third-party website in a two-part program . Google Ads allows advertiser to display their advertisement in the Google content network , through a cost-per-click scheme . The sister service , Google AdSense , allows website owner to display these advertisement on their website and earn money every time ad be clicked . One of the criticism of this program be the possibility of click fraud , which occurs when a person or automate script click on advertisement without be interested in the product , cause the advertiser to pay money to Google unduly . Industry report in 2006 claimed that approximately 14 to 20 percent of click be fraudulent or invalid . Google Search Console ( rebranded from Google Webmaster Tools in May 2015 ) allows webmaster to check the sitemap , crawl rate , and for security issue of their website , a well a optimize their website 's visibility . Google offer Gmail for email , Google Calendar for time-management and schedule , Google Maps for mapping , navigation and satellite imagery , Google Drive for cloud storage of file , Google Docs , Sheets and Slides for productivity , Google Photos for photo storage and share , Google Keep for note-taking , Google Translate for language translation , YouTube for video view and share , Google My Business for manage public business information , and Duo for social interaction . In March 2019 , Google unveiled a cloud game service name Stadia . Google develops the Android mobile operating system , a well a it smartwatch , television , car , and Internet of things-enabled smart device variation . It also develops the Google Chrome web browser , and Chrome OS , an operating system base on Chrome . In January 2010 , Google release Nexus One , the first Android phone under it own brand , `` Nexus '' . It spawn a number of phone and tablet under the `` Nexus '' branding until it eventual discontinuation in 2016 , replace by a new brand call Pixel . In 2011 , the Chromebook be introduce , described a a `` new kind of computer '' run Chrome OS . In July 2013 , Google introduce the Chromecast dongle , that allows user to stream content from their smartphones to television . In June 2014 , Google announce Google Cardboard , a simple cardboard viewer that let user place their smartphone in a special front compartment to view virtual reality ( VR ) medium . G Suite be a monthly subscription offering for organization and business to get access to a collection of Google 's service , include Gmail , Google Drive and Google Docs , Google Sheets and Google Slides , with additional administrative tool , unique domain name , and 24/7 support . On September 24 , 2012 , Google launch Google for Entrepreneurs , a largely not-for-profit business incubator provide startup with co-working space know a Campuses , with assistance to startup founder that may include workshop , conference , and mentorships . Presently , there be 7 Campus location in Berlin , London , Madrid , Seoul , São Paulo , Tel Aviv , and Warsaw . On March 15 , 2016 , Google announce the introduction of Google Analytics 360 Suite , `` a set of integrate data and marketing analytics product , design specifically for the need of enterprise-class marketer '' which can be integrate with BigQuery on the Google Cloud Platform . Among other thing , the suite be design to help `` enterprise class marketer '' `` see the complete customer journey '' , generate `` useful insight '' , and `` deliver engage experience to the right people '' . Jack Marshall of The Wall Street Journal write that the suite competes with exist marketing cloud offering by company include Adobe , Oracle , Salesforce , and IBM . In February 2010 , Google announce the Google Fiber project , with experimental plan to build an ultra-high-speed broadband network for 50,000 to 500,000 customer in one or more American city . Following Google 's corporate restructure to make Alphabet Inc. it parent company , Google Fiber be move to Alphabet 's Access division . In April 2015 , Google announce Project Fi , a mobile virtual network operator , that combine Wi-Fi and cellular network from different telecommunication provider in an effort to enable seamless connectivity and fast Internet signal . In September 2016 , Google begin it Google Station initiative , a project for public Wi-Fi at railway station in India . Caesar Sengupta , VP for Google 's next billion user , told The Verge that 15,000 people get online for the first time thanks to Google Station and that 3.5 million people use the service every month . The expansion meant that Google be look for partner around the world to far develop the initiative , which promise `` high-quality , secure , easily accessible Wi-Fi '' . By December , Google Station have be deployed at 100 railway station , and in February , Google announce it intention to expand beyond railway station , with a plan to bring citywide Wi-Fi to Pune . In May 2011 , Google announce Google Wallet , a mobile application for wireless payment . In 2013 , Google launch Google Shopping Express , a delivery service initially available only in San Francisco and Silicon Valley . Google 's initial public offering ( IPO ) take place on August 19 , 2004 . At IPO , the company offer 19,605,052 share at a price of $ 85 per share . The sale of $ 1.67 billion give Google a market capitalization of more than $ 23 billion . The stock perform well after the IPO , with share hit $ 350 for the first time on October 31 , 2007 , primarily because of strong sale and earnings in the online advertising market . The surge in stock price be fuel mainly by individual investor , a oppose to large institutional investor and mutual fund . GOOG share split into GOOG class C share and GOOGL class A share . The company be list on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol GOOGL and GOOG , and on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol GGQ1 . These ticker symbol now refer to Alphabet Inc. , Google 's hold company , since the fourth quarter of 2015 . The corporation 's consolidated revenue for the third quarter of 2013 be report in mid-October 2013 a $ 14.89 billion , a 12 percent increase compare to the previous quarter . Google 's Internet business be responsible for $ 10.8 billion of this total , with an increase in the number of user ' click on advertisement . By January 2014 , Google 's market capitalization have grown to $ 397 billion . Google us various tax avoidance strategy . Out of the five large American technology company , it pay the low tax to the country of origin of it revenue . Google between 2007 and 2010 save $ 3.1 billion in tax by shuttle non-U.S. profit through Ireland and the Netherlands and then to Bermuda . Such technique low it non-U.S. tax rate to 2.3 per cent , while normally the corporate tax rate in for instance the UK be 28 per cent . This have reportedly spark a French investigation into Google 's transfer pricing practice . Google Vice-President Matt Brittin testify to the Public Accounts Committee of the UK House of Commons that his UK sale team make no sale and hence owe no sale tax to the UK . In January 2016 , Google reach a settlement with the UK to pay £130m in back tax plus high tax in future . In 2017 , Google channel $ 22.7 billion from the Netherlands to Bermuda to reduce it tax bill . In 2013 , Google ranked 5th in lobbying spending , up from 213th in 2003 . In 2012 , the company ranked 2nd in campaign donation of technology and Internet section . The name `` Google '' originate from a misspell of `` googol '' , which refers to the number represent by a 1 follow by one-hundred zero . Page and Brin write in their original paper on PageRank : `` We chose our system name , Google , because it be a common spell of googol , or 10100 and fit well with our goal of building very large-scale search engine . '' Having found it way increasingly into everyday language , the verb `` google '' be add to the Merriam Webster Collegiate Dictionary and the Oxford English Dictionary in 2006 , meaning `` to use the Google search engine to obtain information on the Internet . '' Google 's mission statement , from the outset , be `` to organize the world 's information and make it universally accessible and useful '' , and it unofficial slogan be `` Do n't be evil '' . In October 2015 , a related motto be adopt in the Alphabet corporate code of conduct by the phrase : `` Do the right thing '' . The original motto be retain in the code of conduct of Google , now a subsidiary of Alphabet . The original Google logo be design by Sergey Brin . Since 1998 , Google have be design special , temporary alternate logo to place on their homepage intend to celebrate holiday , event , achievement and people . The first Google Doodle be in honor of the Burning Man Festival of 1998 . The doodle be design by Larry Page and Sergey Brin to notify user of their absence in case the server crashed . Subsequent Google Doodles be design by an outside contractor , until Larry and Sergey ask then-intern Dennis Hwang to design a logo for Bastille Day in 2000 . From that point onward , Doodles have be organize and create by a team of employee term `` Doodlers '' . Google have a tradition of create April Fools ' Day joke . Its first on April 1 , 2000 be Google MentalPlex which allegedly feature the use of mental power to search the web . In 2007 , Google announce a free Internet service call TiSP , or Toilet Internet Service Provider , where one obtain a connection by flush one end of a fiber-optic cable down their toilet . Google 's service contain easter egg , such a the Swedish Chef 's `` Bork bork bork , '' Pig Latin , `` Hacker '' or leetspeak , Elmer Fudd , Pirate , and Klingon a language selection for it search engine . When search for the word `` anagram , '' meaning a rearrangement of letter from one word to form other valid word , Google 's suggestion feature display `` Did you mean : nag a ram ? '' On Fortune magazine 's list of the best company to work for , Google ranked first in 2007 , 2008 and 2012 , and fourth in 2009 and 2010 . Google be also nominate in 2010 to be the world 's most attractive employer to graduate student in the Universum Communications talent attraction index . Google 's corporate philosophy include principle such a `` you can make money without do evil , '' `` you can be serious without a suit , '' and `` work should be challenge and the challenge should be fun . '' As of December 2018 , Google have 98,771 employee . Google 's 2017 diversity report state that 31 percent of it workforce be woman and 69 percent be men , with the ethnicity of it workforce be predominantly white ( 56 % ) and Asian ( 35 % ) . Within tech role , however , 20 percent be woman ; and 25 percent of leadership role be held by woman . Google 's employee be hire base on a hierarchical system . Employees be split into six hierarchy base on experience and can range `` from entry-level data center worker at level one to manager and experienced engineer at level six . '' As a motivation technique , Google us a policy know a Innovation Time Off , where Google engineer be encourage to spend 20 % of their work time on project that interest them . Some of Google 's service , such a Gmail , Google News , Orkut , and AdSense originate from these independent endeavor . In a talk at Stanford University , Marissa Mayer , Google 's Vice-President of Search Products and User Experience until July 2012 , show that half of all new product launch in the second half of 2005 have originate from the Innovation Time Off . In 2005 , article in The New York Times and other source begin suggest that Google have lose it anti-corporate , no evil philosophy . In an effort to maintain the company 's unique culture , Google designate a Chief Culture Officer whose purpose be to develop and maintain the culture and work on way to keep true to the core value that the company be found on . Google have also face allegation of sexism and ageism from former employee . In 2013 , a class action against several Silicon Valley company , include Google , be file for allege `` no cold call '' agreement which restrain the recruitment of high-tech employee . Google 's headquarters in Mountain View , California be refer to a `` the Googleplex '' , a play on word on the number googolplex and the headquarters itself be a complex of building . Internationally , Google have over 78 office in more than 50 country . In 2006 , Google move into about 300,000 square foot ( 27,900 m2 ) of office space in New York City , at 111 Eighth Avenue in Manhattan . The office be design and built specially for Google , and house it large advertising sale team , which have be instrumental in secure large partnership . In 2010 , Google bought the building housing the headquarter , in a deal that value the property at around $ 1.9 billion . In March 2018 , Google 's parent company Alphabet bought the nearby Chelsea Market building for $ 2.4 billion . The sale be tout a one of the most expensive real estate transaction for a single building in the history of New York . In November 2018 , Google announce it plan to expand it New York City office to a capacity of 12,000 employee . The same December , it be announce that a $ 1 billion , 1,700,000-square-foot ( 160,000 m2 ) headquarters for Google would be built in Manhattan 's Hudson Square neighborhood . Called Google Hudson Square , the new campus be project to more than double the number of Google employee work in New York City . By late 2006 , Google establish a new headquarters for it AdWords division in Ann Arbor , Michigan . In November 2006 , Google open office on Carnegie Mellon 's campus in Pittsburgh , focus on shopping-related advertisement cod and smartphone application and program . Other office location in the U.S. include Atlanta , Georgia ; Austin , Texas ; Boulder , Colorado ; Cambridge , Massachusetts ; San Francisco , California ; Seattle , Washington ; Kirkland , Washington ; Birmingham , Michigan ; Reston , Virginia , and Washington , D.C . It also have product research and development operation in city around the world , namely Sydney ( birthplace location of Google Maps ) and London ( part of Android development ) . In November 2013 , Google announce plan for a new London headquarter , a 1 million square foot office able to accommodate 4,500 employee . Recognized a one of the big ever commercial property acquisition at the time of the deal 's announcement in January , Google submit plan for the new headquarter to the Camden Council in June 2017 . In May 2015 , Google announce it intention to create it own campus in Hyderabad , India . The new campus , report to be the company 's large outside the United States , will accommodate 13,000 employee . Google data center be locate in North and South America , Asia , and Europe . There be no official data on the number of server in Google data center ; however , research and advisory firm Gartner estimate in a July 2016 report that Google at the time have 2.5 million server . Traditionally , Google rely on parallel compute on commodity hardware like mainstream x86 computer ( similar to home PCs ) to keep cost per query low . In 2005 , it start develop it own design , which be only reveal in 2009 . In the late 2010s , Google begin to build it own private submarine communication cable . The first , name Curie , connects California with Chile and be to be complete in 2019 . The second fully Google-owned undersea cable , name Dunant , connects the United States with France and be plan to begin operation in 2020 . In October 2006 , the company announce plan to install thousand of solar panel to provide up to 1.6 megawatt of electricity , enough to satisfy approximately 30 % of the campus ' energy need . The system will be the large solar power system construct on a U.S. corporate campus and one of the large on any corporate site in the world . Since 2007 , Google have aim for carbon neutrality in regard to it operation . Google disclose in September 2011 that it `` continuously us enough electricity to power 200,000 home '' , almost 260 million watt or about a quarter of the output of a nuclear power plant . Total carbon emission for 2010 be just under 1.5 million metric ton , mostly due to fossil fuel that provide electricity for the data center . Google say that 25 percent of it energy be supply by renewable fuel in 2010 . An average search us only 0.3 watt-hour of electricity , so all global search be only 12.5 million watt or 5 % of the total electricity consumption by Google . In 2010 , Google Energy make it first investment in a renewable energy project , put $ 38.8 million into two wind farm in North Dakota . The company announce the two location will generate 169.5 megawatt of power , enough to supply 55,000 home . In February 2010 , the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC grant Google an authorization to buy and sell energy at market rate . The corporation exercise this authorization in September 2013 when it announce it would purchase all the electricity produce by the not-yet-built 240-megawatt Happy Hereford wind farm . In July 2010 , Google sign an agreement with an Iowa wind farm to buy 114 megawatt of energy for 20 year . In December 2016 , Google announce that—starting in 2017—it will power all of it data center , a well a all of it office , from 100 % renewable energy . The commitment will make Google `` the world 's large corporate buyer of renewable power , with commitment reach 2.6 gigawatts ( 2,600 megawatt ) of wind and solar energy '' . Google also state that it do not count that a it final goal ; it say that `` since the wind do n't blow 24 hour a day , we 'll also broaden our purchase to a variety of energy source that can enable renewable power , every hour of every day '' . Additionally , the project will `` help support community '' around the world , a the purchase commitment will `` result in infrastructure investment of more than $ 3.5 billion globally '' , and will `` generate ten of million of dollar per year in revenue to local property owner , and ten of million more to local and national government in tax revenue '' . In November 2017 , Google bought 536 megawatt of wind power . The purchase make the firm reach 100 % renewable energy . The wind energy come from two power plant in South Dakota , one in Iowa and one in Oklahoma . In September 2019 , Google 's chief executive announce plan for a $ 2 billion wind and solar investment , the big renewable energy deal in corporate history . This will grow their green energy profile by 40 % , give them an extra 1.6 gigawatt of clean energy , the company say . In 2004 , Google form the not-for-profit philanthropic Google.org , with a start-up fund of $ 1 billion . The mission of the organization be to create awareness about climate change , global public health , and global poverty . One of it first project be to develop a viable plug-in hybrid electric vehicle that can attain 100 mile per gallon . Google hire Larry Brilliant a the program 's executive director in 2004 and Megan Smith have since replace him a director . In 2008 , Google announce it `` project 10100 '' which accepted idea for how to help the community and then allow Google user to vote on their favorite . After two year of silence , during which many wonder what have happen to the program , Google reveal the winner of the project , give a total of ten million dollar to various idea range from non-profit organization that promote education to a website that intend to make all legal document public and online . In March 2007 , in partnership with the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute ( MSRI ) , Google host the first Julia Robinson Mathematics Festival at it headquarters in Mountain View . In 2011 , Google donate 1 million euro to International Mathematical Olympiad to support the next five annual International Mathematical Olympiads ( 2011–2015 ) . In July 2012 , Google launch a `` Legalize Love '' campaign in support of gay right . Google 's market dominance have lead to prominent medium coverage , include criticism of the company over issue such a aggressive tax avoidance , search neutrality , copyright , censorship of search result and content , and privacy . Other criticism include allege misuse and manipulation of search result , it use of others ' intellectual property , concern that it compilation of data may violate people 's privacy , and the energy consumption of it server , a well a concern over traditional business issue such a monopoly , restraint of trade , anti-competitive practice , and patent infringement . Google formerly adhere to the Internet censorship policy of China , enforce by mean of filter colloquially know a `` The Great Firewall of China '' , but no longer do so . As a result , all Google service except for Chinese Google Maps be block from access within mainland China without the aid of VPNs , proxy server , or other similar technology . The Intercept report in August 2018 that Google be develop for the People 's Republic of China a censor version of it search engine ( know a Dragonfly ) `` that will blacklist website and search term about human right , democracy , religion , and peaceful protest '' . However , the project have be withheld due to privacy concern . Following medium report about PRISM , NSA 's massive electronic surveillance program , in June 2013 , several technology company be identify a participant , include Google . According to leak of say program , Google join the PRISM program in 2009 . Google have work with the United States Department of Defense on drone software through the 2017 `` Project Maven '' that could be use to improve the accuracy of drone strike . Thousands of Google employee , include senior engineer , have sign a letter urge Google CEO Sundar Pichai to end a controversial contract with the Pentagon . In response to the backlash , Google ultimately decide to not renew their DoD contract , set to expire in 2019 . Shona Ghosh , a journalist for Business Insider , note that an increase digital resistance movement against Google have grown . A major hub for critic of Google in order to organize to abstain from use Google product be the Reddit page for the subreddit /r/degoogle . In April 2019 former Mozilla executive have accuse Google of intentionally and systematically sabotage Firefox browser over the past decade in order to boost Chrome 's adoption . This be not the first time such controversy be report . In July 2018 , Mozilla Program Manager Chris Peterson accuse Google of intentionally slow down YouTube performance on Firefox . Google have be involve in a number of lawsuit include the High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation which result in Google be one of four company to pay a $ 415 million settlement to employee . On June 27 , 2017 , the company receive a record fine of €2.42 billion from the European Union for `` promote it own shopping comparison service at the top of search result . '' Commenting on the penalty , New Scientist magazine say : `` The hefty sum – the large ever doled out by the EU 's competition regulator – will sting in the short term , but Google can handle it . Alphabet , Google ’ s parent company , make a profit of $ 2.5 billion ( €2.2 billion ) in the first six week of 2017 alone . The real impact of the ruling be that Google must stop use it dominance a a search engine to give itself the edge in another market : online price comparison . '' The company dispute the ruling . On July 18 , 2018 , the European Commission fin Google €4.34 billion for breaching EU antitrust rule . The abuse of dominant position have be refer to Google 's constraint apply on Android device manufacturer and network operator to ensure that traffic on Android device go to the Google search engine . On October 9 , 2018 , Google confirm that it have appeal the fine to the General Court of the European Union . On January 21 , 2019 , French data regulator CNIL impose a record €50 million fine on Google for breaching the European Union 's General Data Protection Regulation . The judgment claimed Google have fail to sufficiently inform user of it method for collect data to personalize advertising . Google issue a statement say it be “ deeply commit ” to transparency and be “ study the decision ” before determine it response . On March 20 , 2019 , the European Commission impose a €1.49 billion ( $ 1.69 billion ) fine on Google for prevent rival from be able to “ compete and innovate fairly ” in the online advertising market . European Union competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager say Google have violate EU antitrust rule by “ impose anti-competitive contractual restriction on third-party website ” that require them to exclude search result from Google 's rival . Kent Walker , Google 's senior vice-president of global affair , say the company have “ already make a wide range of change to our product to address the Commission ’ s concern , ” and that `` we 'll be make far update to give more visibility to rival in Europe . '' 